Cryptocurrencies were non existent about a decade ago, and they have certainly come a long way since then. In this article we try to understand how cryptocurrencies are valued, so as to give the investors a better understanding of what they are getting into.
Before we Begin

Fundamental analysis forms the backbone of any type of valuation.

Performing fundamental analysis for cryptocurrencies is different due to the absence of financial statements to analyze.
We have to understand that cryptocurrencies are not companies but currencies, i.e. their viability is not based on generating revenue.

It directly depends on the participation of the community, i.e.,

Users

Miners

Developers


Factors that Affect Crypto Value:

Utility:

A coin must incentivize people to hold the coins.
The more the people that execute transactions, the greater the demand for coins will be and will, therefore, push prices up.
Utility also include voting rights, dividend payments or being a medium of exchange.


Scarcity:

The finite nature of the coins.
Demand will push its value up, especially for coins with great utility.


Perceived Value:

What the markets deem their value to be.
Collaborations and partnerships with credible companies enhance the perceived value of a coin.


What is needed for a good understanding of a coin’s fundamentals?

1. The Right Sources of Information:-

i) Coin’s White Paper :

A detailed proposal by the development team which outlines the purpose and mechanics of the coin.
Represents the main source for evaluating the fundamentals of the coin.
The drawback is that it can get very technical – concepts that are hard for an average person to comprehend.



ii) Coin’s Slack Channel or Blog:

Official channel of communication of the core development team.
Joining their slack channel, asking questions to get more information on the coin, viewing the interaction of the development team with the community helps a lot.



iii) Community Forums:

A great way to understand the coins as well as sentiments surrounding the coin.
Simple definitions of certain concepts, easy-to-understand analysis of coins from forums can be found as the community is well-informed.
It allows one to grasp the mechanics of the coin far better, especially if he/she not technically-inclined.



2. Cryptocurrency Fundamental Analysis:-

Purpose of Coin?

Does it Solve a Real Problem?

Does the Coin Possess Any Utility?

Is the White Paper a Marketing stunt filled with jargons?

Is the Project Funded/Backed by Prominent Investors?

Governance Structure-Centralized or Decentralized?

Development Roadmap? 

Running “Proof” of the Coin.

Money Have They Raised? How have they spent it?

Difference from the nearest Competitor?

Significant Legal Barriers?



There’s no way to determine the inherent value of a cryptocurrency, as there is no asset backing it, but certain calculations can give us a reasonable estimate for the value of cryptocurrencies based on certain assumptions.

    i)   Quantity Theory of Money:
            
            MV = PT

Where:

M is the money supply
V is the velocity of money in a given time period
P is the price level
T is the transaction volume in a given time period
the equation as valid over the long-term
a large portion of this velocity is just trading volume, not spending volume.
criminal activity, since that’s one of Bitcoin’s biggest applications that affects the actual value of goods traded



    ii) National Currency Comparisons:

Cryptocurrency adoption compared to fiat currencies.

How much economic activity – the equivalent of GDP, that actually occurs in a cryptocurrency from the active users.

Examining active user base of the cryptocurrency, since the ledger is public.

