How to Invest in Cryptocurrency ?

Cryptocurrency can be purchased on peer-to-peer networks and cryptocurrency exchanges, such as Coinbase and Bitfinex. Keep an eye out for fees, though, as some of these exchanges charge what can be prohibitively high costs on small crypto purchases. Coinbase, for instance, charges a fee of 0.5% of your purchase plus a flat fee of $0.99 to $2.99 depending on the size of your transaction.
More recently, the investing app Robinhood started offering the ability to buy several of the top cryptocurrencies, including Bitcoin, Ethereum and Dogecoin, without the fees of many of the major exchanges.
But keep in mind that buying individual cryptocurrencies is a little like buying individual stocks. Since you’re putting all of your money into one security, you take on more risk than if you spread it out over hundreds or thousands, like you could with a mutual fund or exchange-traded fund (ETF).



Investing in Cryptocurrency in India:

There are actually two broad ways you can enter the crypto world. The first one is the complex and intellectual method - Mining. Let's take bitcoins, for instance. So, if you try your stint at bitcoin mining, you'll have to enforce the bitcoin policies by adding blocks of transactions to the blockchain network, and that'll earn you bitcoins. Or so to say, miners get rewarded with bitcoins for working in and for the bitcoin system.
But here's the catch, you'll have to delve into all sorts of complex mathematical algorithms and other over-complicated stuff to mine these bitcoins. Moreover, it will require you some special purpose equipment as well. And naturally, that isn't everyone's cup of tea, right?
This brings us to a more convenient and simplest method of entering the crypto markets - through Crypto exchanges. A Cryptocurrency exchange is a platform that helps you buy and sell cryptocurrencies such as Bitcoins, ethereum, etc. Unlike the stock exchange, crypto exchanges are self-regulated, and they operate 24/7 round the year.


Procedure to invest using Crypto-exchanges
Here's a step-by-step guide to investing in cryptos thorough exchanges:

1. Choosing a suitable Crypto-exchange

Often the first step you take in investing is the most important - to choose a platform. You'll have to get your account opened with the crypto exchange best suited for you. 
There are a number of crypto exchanges in India, like WazirX, CoinDCX Go, and BuyUCoin, etc.
Going by the simplicity, convenience, and safety measures, CoinDCX Go stands out to be a clear winner. 
The best thing about it is that it supports INR as fiat currency, and you can actually invest in cryptos with as low as Rs 10! It has a very seamless user interface that makes the entire procedure all the more convenient.


2. Setting up KYC and payment options

Once you've selected a suitable crypto exchange, the next step would be to get your KYC done. Basically, you'll have to upload various documents like PAN card, photo identity proof, address proof, etc., with the exchange. 
This is to ensure that your account is legitimate and to prevent fraudulent practices.
Further, you need to specify a payment option(s) that'll be used for deposits and withdrawals while trading cryptos. But you've to be very mindful of the fees charged by some crypto exchanges on transactions as it makes no sense to let them get a bit every time you transact!
And that's where CoinDCX Go has the edge over others.
Here, you'll not have to pay any transaction fees for deposits, withdrawals, and trading cryptos, like literally zero fees! And yeah, you can put in and take out money 24/7. It has this 2-factor authentication and withdrawal password mechanism, which ensures safety in all transactions. Moreover, your funds are completely safe and insured by BitGo, its custodian. Adherence to all KYC/AML procedures and the ISO certification makes CoinDCX Go an even more reliable medium.


3. Placing the trade order

Now that you're done setting up your account, you're all set to trade in cryptos. Well, unlike stock markets, you can trade cryptos 24/7. Moreover, the crypto exchange platforms have, indeed, come a long way to be near at par with the stock exchanges and now enable various types of orders like Market Order, Cover Order, Limit Order, etc.
Post the trade order; you can store the cryptos in wallets and/or withdraw your money.



Should You Invest in Cryptocurrency?

Experts hold mixed opinions about investing in cryptocurrency. Because crypto is a highly speculative investment, with the potential for intense price swings, some financial advisors don’t recommend people invest at all.
For example, while Bitcoin has nearly doubled in value over the last year, reaching a price of over $18,000 in November 2020, it’s also drastically lost value in the same year, like when it bottomed out at under $5,000 per Bitcoin. 
Even Bitcoin’s recent highs, however, are still lower than its 2017 peak of about $20,000 per Bitcoin. All of this is to say, cryptocurrencies, unlike most established currencies, can be very volatile and change value frequently.